---
layout: with-sidebar
title: "Syllabus – UCSD CSE11 Fall 21"
doodle: "/doodle.png"
---

**This is a draft until this notice is removed**

# Accelerated Intro to Programming (UCSD CSE 11) Fall 2021

Greg Miranda (Instructor)
Joe Gibbs Politz (Instructor)

In this course, you will learn to write, trace, and test programs; explore the
interactions between programs and data; and practice organizing programs for
clarity and re-use.

We will explore these topics interactively in lecure, you will implement
programs to practice your programming skills, and you will reflect on this
learning through your own program designs.

This web page serves as the main source of announcements and resources for the
course, as well as the syllabus.

On an average week in CSE11, you can expect to spend 4-6 hours on videos,
reading, lecture, and discussion; 2-3 hours on programming practice; and 4-6
hours working on your programming projects. If you find yourself spending
dramatically more time than this, it's a good idea to contact the course staff
and discuss more efficient strategies in office hours.

<h3>Lecture and Discussion Sections</h3>

Most course content will be presented asynchronously through videos and
readings, with associated interactive activities. Lectures will involve problem
solving with your classmates. Attendance is required at problem-solving lecture
sections; you can either attend your assigned lecture time in person, or attend
one of the discussion sections remotely to get credit.

Recordings of the in-person lectures will be posted later through the UCSD
podcasting system. Since these may be mostly student discussion, these are
mostly an archive of any live demos that come up rather than a presentation of
core content.

## Grading

There are a few components to your grade in the course:

- Lecture attendance
- Completing book exercises and surveys
- Programming assignments (weekly)
- Programming exams (every 3 weeks + final exam)

Your final letter grade will be calculated as follows:

- To get an A or above, you must:
  - Not miss more than 3 lectures
  - Complete all book exercises and course engagement activities
  - Get a score of “complete” on all but 1 programming assignment
  - Get a score of “complete” on all parts of the final exam OR on all of the other programming exams

- To get a B or above, you must:
  - Not miss more than 6 lectures
  - Complete most book exercises and course engagement activities
  - Get a score of “complete” on all but 2 programming assignments
  - Get a score of “complete” on all parts of the final exam OR on two of three of the other programming exams

- To get a C or above, you must:
  - Not miss more than 6 lectures
  - Complete most book exercises and course engagement activities
  - Get a score of “complete” on at least half of the programming assignments
  - Get a score of “complete” on two of three parts of the final exam OR on two of three of the other programming exams

We may adjust the above scale to be more lenient (depending on a number of
factors that we will not publicize), but we guarantee that we will not adjust
the scale to make it harder to get a better grade. We will not adjust the scale
for individual students. Pluses and minuses will be given at instructors
discretion around the boundaries of these categorizations.

<a id="g:engage"></a>
<h3>Engagement</h3>

Each lecture will come with an associated quiz. Completing the quiz before the
next lecture section with at least half of the answers correct gains engagement
credit. You can also get engagement credit by submitting various surveys and
other small engagement tasks we may ask of you throughout the quarter.

You need to get credit for 14 (out of 20 total) quizzes for full engagement
credit.

<a id="p:programming"></a>
<h3>Programming</h3>

Most weeks there will be a programming assignment. Direct practice with
programming will make up the majority of your work in the course.

On each submission, you will get a grade which partially comes from an
automatic grade based on the correctness of your code (a small part of your
grade) and some manually-written **feedback** from the course staff (the larger
portion). If you don't complete the assignment because you didn't attempt some
of the parts, you'll miss out on most of the credit. However, if you make a
clear effort at all the parts, we will give you **feedback tasks** as part of
your grade report. After you get your grade, you'll follow up with a new
submission that addresses the feedback tasks and your grade will be based on
how well you responded. A more correct and thorough initial submission will
usually have a much smaller set of feedback tasks.

There are 10 PAs total, and their relative weightings that add up to 50% are:

- PA0.5: 1%
- PA1: 4%
- PA2: 5%
- PA3: 6%
- PA4: 7%
- PA5: 6%
- PA6: 3%
- PA7: 8%
- PA8: 5%
- PA9: 5%

After you get your grade back on each you have some time to improve your
grade via feedback tasks and resubmitting any automatically-graded component.

<a id="g:exams"></a>
<h3>Exams</h3>

In place of on-paper exams, we will follow a different procedure for “exams”
this quarter.

Twice during the quarter and once at the time of the final exam, we will give
you a short programming assignment that you must complete in a short time frame
(2-3 days) without any help from other people, including the course staff. You
can use any resources, notes, readings, and past code from the course to help
in addition to Web-based resources.  Along with submitting the program, you
will record a short video of yourself presenting the program you wrote,
demonstrating its behavior and your understanding. We'll give some
opportunities for practice with this process, and much more detailed
instructions with the exam release.

The first time will be in **week 6**, with Thu/Fri/Sat as the days to complete
it (right after PA5, May 6-8). The second time will be in **week 9** with
Thu/Fri/Sat as the days to complete it (May 28-30). The last time will be for a
few days leading up to our final exam date (June 7-9).

We **do not** expect that the programming work and recording will take three
days of constant work. The tasks will be significantly shorter than the PAs, so
this should only take a few hours. We give the broad range to give you the best
chance to schedule some quiet, focused time to do the work and record the
presentation.

It's worth explaining why we are using this mechanism. There are at least two
reasons:

1. Presenting your code, and demonstrating it via screenshare, is a really
important skill and shows us a lot of your learning. Getting practice with this
style of presentation is a good thing for you to learn in general and a rich
way for us to assess your skills.
2. The main thing that in-person, on-paper exams let us do is easily verify
that it is in fact **you**, the student, completing a major assessment. We can
similarly do so with a video – many students are concerned that cheating will
be frequent in all-remote courses, and this is our way of ensuring that we are
giving grades to the people who earned them.

We will delete all the videos we receive from you after assigning final grades
for the course, and they will be stored in a university-controlled Google Drive
directory during the quarter only accessible to the course staff.

Please send a private message on Piazza or an email to the instructor if you
have concerns about this exam policy or cannot complete exams in this style for
some reason.


<a id="policies"></a>
## Policies

### Academic Integrity

Individual assignments will describe their academic integrity requirements.
This have a [missive on academic integrity](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1F6tu-82W5kFkEkZG8n4F7p-MLhyFVWLdPw5Tm1fABfM/edit?folder=1jNMUNlJuyXaOxDE5MdNNfRFARxfP40Rr#)
has some details some examples of what we expect in terms of collaboration in the
course.

Note that with the course remote, one challenge we face as an instructional
team is verifying that students are submitting their own work. We typically use
exams to mitigate this particular challenge to academic integrity, since it
requires an in-person, ID-checked assessment. Assignments and exams will come
with specific policies for what types of collaboration is allowed, but we have
one course-wide policy – we may reach out to students to schedule a check-in on
their understanding of work they've submitted if we're suspicious about an
academic integrity violation. This would involve a videoconference with a TA or
instructor to check that the student has the understanding demonstrated by
their work.

We don't expect to use this option much (certainly **you** are a student that
acts with integrity!), but we state it clearly in the syllabus in case it
becomes necessary so it isn't a surprise to anyone.

You should be familiar with [the UCSD
guidelines](http://senate.ucsd.edu/Operating-Procedures/Senate-Manual/Appendices/2)
on academic integrity as well.

### Late Work

In general, late work is not accepted. However, most of the categories of
submission for the course allow some missed submissions without having a
large impact on your grade, and you only have to submit a subset of them for
full credit.

### Regrades

Mistakes sometimes occur in grading. Once grades are posted for an assignment,
we will allow a short period for you to request a fix (announced along with
grade release). If you don't make a request in the given period, the grade you
were initially given is final.


### Diversity and Inclusion

We are committed to fostering a learning environment for this course that
supports a diversity of thoughts, perspectives and experiences, and respects
your identities (including race, ethnicity, heritage, gender, sex, class,
sexuality, religion, ability, age, educational background, etc.).  Our goal is
to create a diverse and inclusive learning environment where all students feel
comfortable and can thrive.

Our instructional staff will make a concerted effort to be welcoming and
inclusive to the wide diversity of students in this course.  If there is a way
we can make you feel more included please let one of the course staff know,
either in person, via email/discussion board, or even in a note under the door.
Our learning about diverse perspectives and identities is an ongoing process,
and we welcome your perspectives and input.

We also expect that you, as a student in this course, will honor and respect
your classmates, abiding by the UCSD Principles of Community
(https://ucsd.edu/about/principles.html).  Please understand that others’
backgrounds, perspectives and experiences may be different than your own, and
help us to build an environment where everyone is respected and feels
comfortable.

If you experience any sort of harassment or discrimination, please contact the
instructor as soon as possible.   If you prefer to speak with someone outside
of the course, please contact the Office of Prevention of Harassment and
Discrimination: https://ophd.ucsd.edu/.

### Consent to Participate in Educational Research

University of California, San Diego
Consent to Act as a Research Subject
Investigating the Impact of Pedagogical Choices on University Student Learning and Engagement

**Who is conducting the study, why you have been asked to participate, how you were selected, and what is the approximate number of participants in the study?**

Gabriele Wienhausen, Director of the Teaching and Learning Commons, together
with her education research colleagues is conducting a research study to find
out more about how pedagogical choices affect student learning and experience
in the classroom. You have been asked to participate in this study because you
are a student in a class that is being studied or used as a control. There will
be approximately 500,000 participants in this study.

**Why is this study being done?**

The purpose of this study is to create knowledge that has the potential to
improve the learning and educational experience of students at UC San Diego and
beyond.

**What will happen to you in this study and which procedures are standard of care and which are experimental?**

If you agree to be in this study, the following will happen:

Your data from this class including grades, homework and exam submissions, and
survey responses will be included in the analysis to determine the
effectiveness of the pedagogical techniques used in this course compared to
other similar courses.

**How much time will each study procedure take, what is your total time commitment, and how long will the study last?**

Your participation involves only agreeing to let us use your data in our
analysis.  It will require no time on your part above the time you put into
this course without agreeing to the study.

**What risks are associated with this study?**

Participation in this study may involve some added risks or discomforts. These include the following:

1.   A potential for the loss of confidentiality.   We will not share your
personally identifying data with people outside our research team.  Data will
only be kept in anonymized form for research purposes.  Course data will not be
used for this research study until after final grades have been posted and will
be rendered confidential by removing any identifiers before analysis.  Your
instructor will not know whether or not you are participating in this study
until after final grades have been posted.  Data from students who opt out of
the study will be removed prior to data analysis.  Research records will be
kept confidential to the extent allowed by law. Research records may be
reviewed by the UCSD Institutional Review Board.

Since this is an investigational study, there may be some unknown risks that
are currently unforeseeable. You will be informed of any significant new
findings.

**What are the alternatives to participating in this study?**

The alternatives to participation in this study are not to participate.   If
you choose to opt-out of participating in this research study, we will exclude
your data from analysis.  Whether you participate will have no impact on your
experience or grade in the associated class as the professor will not know who
is or is not participating in the study until after final grades are assigned.

**What benefits can be reasonably expected?**

There is no direct benefit to you for participating in the study. The
investigator, however, may learn more about how to improve student learning,
and society may benefit from this knowledge.

**Can you choose to not participate or withdraw from the study without penalty or loss of benefits?**

Participation in research is entirely voluntary. You may refuse to participate
or withdraw or refuse to answer specific questions in an interview or on a
questionnaire at any time without penalty or loss of benefits to which you are
entitled. If you decide that you no longer wish to continue in this study
before the end of the quarter, simply respond to the online opt-out form here:
https://goo.gl/forms/JSBRjEmkES6W6xYc2.  If you decide to opt out after the
quarter has ended, you must contact Laurel Nelson (laureln@ucsd.edu) and give
the quarter and the course from which you would like your data withdrawn.  You
will be told if any important new information is found during the course of
this study that may affect your wanting to continue.

**Can you be withdrawn from the study without your consent?**

The PI may remove you from the study without your consent if the PI feels it is
in your best interest or the best interest of the study. You may also be
withdrawn from the study if you do not follow the instructions given you by the
study personnel.

**Will you be compensated for participating in this study?**

You will not be compensated for participating in this study.

**Are there any costs associated with participating in this study?**

There will be no cost to you for participating in this study.

**Who can you call if you have questions?**

Gabriele Wienhausen and/or her colleague has explained this study to you and
answered your questions. If you have other questions or research-related
problems, you may reach Gabriele Wienhausen at gwienhausen@ucsd.edu or (858)
534-3958.  You may call the Human Research Protections Program Office at
858-246-HRPP (858-246-4777) to inquire about your rights as a research subject
or to report research-related problems.

**Your Consent**

If you consent to participate in this study and are at least 18 years old, no action is needed.  If you DO NOT consent to participate in this study, or you choose to opt-out at any time during the quarter, please submit this form online at  https://goo.gl/forms/JSBRjEmkES6W6xYc2.  Your instructor will not have access to the list of students who opted out until after grades are posted.  Note that you must separately opt-out of the study for each course involved in this study.
>>>>>>> 078c138 (working on sidebar)
